# HW TG Meeting: March 17, 2021

## Attendees:
- Hugh Pollitt-Smith
- Alfredo Herrera
- Davide Schiavone
- Duncan Bees
- Florian Zaruba
- Michael Wong
- Mike Thompson
- Olive Zhao
- Rick O’Connor
- Lee Moore
- Tim Saxe

## Agenda:
- Update on CORE-V-MCU SOC/FPGA
- Update on CORE-V-MCU Verilator

## CORE-V-MCU SOC/FPGA project update:

  * Tim/QuickLogic working with Florian and Davide on pull request to bring QuickLogic’s version of core-v-mcu into OpenHW Group repo
    * This is a substantial update that makes interrupts and timers compatible with RISC-V as well as changes to I/O
    * Bitstreams are available on QuickLogic web site [here](http://quickai.quicklogic.com)
    * Recognized previous discussions in Mattermost and other meetings that core-v-mcu (PULPissimo) specification is not well documented; platform will include a “standard” UART from LowRISC on the APB bus that will be more conventional (as opposed to uDMA-based UART)
    * Greg/QuickLogic is integrating the eFPGA; almost done and will create another pull request when ready
    * Estimate a golden netlist for synthesis will be ready mid-April
  * For HAL, there are several layers of documentation
    * Registers: propose to use the LowRISC approach (json format) that can drive RTL, documentation, .h files
    * Basic subroutines to access peripherals: propose to use FreeRTOS
    * APIs to accelerators, DSPs
  * The project should have a documented plan, which is important to generate critical mass
    * Development should be in public through the OpenHW Group repo; the plan can be used to solicit more contributors and set direction (e.g., replace uDMA)
    * Participants can self-identify where they want to contribute
    * If the community can view and understand the plan, they can engage
    * The plan should document decisions (e.g., # of UARTs)
    * Aim to have a documented plan in 2 weeks, to present at the next TWG after that (April)

## CORE-V-MCU Verilator update

  * Progress has been delayed a bit
  * Alfredo wanted to know how/where to submit pull requests for updates
    * It was decided that this should be a folder within the core-v-mcu repo, as opposed to a separate repo
