### HW TG - August 18, 2021:

#### Agenda:
* CORE-V-MCU Verilator update
* CORE-V-MCU SoC update
* Bootrom discussion/alignment
* CORE-V-MCU Program discussion (see Duncan's note [here](https://mattermost.openhwgroup.org/all-users/channels/twg--hw/qxnab8og6bng8krj8znrw1ugze))
* Fixing hardware issues found by software Teams (action from last week's SW TG)
    * Raise issues; not access to the repo ; suggest/assign; at the stage where we know what to do; raise issue for the HW team.


#### Attendees:
- Hugh Pollitt-Smith
- Anthony Le
- Duncan Bees
- Florian Zaruba
- Greg Martin
- Jeremy Bennett
- Olive Zhao
- Rick O’Connor
- Tim Saxe


#### Discussion notes:
- Verilator modelling project update:
    - Project is currently running 8 weeks behind and could be 16 weeks late by the end (see Jeremy’s report [here](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-docs/blob/master/hw/projects/verilator-model/2021/20210819-hwtg-report.md))
    - Discussion on the debug unit:
        - Noted that there are issues with the debug unit; concern that there is a need to better verify the HW of the debug unit
        - Who owns the debug unit? It is currently maintained by PULP, not OpenHW Group; there is a need to bring the debug module Ito OpenHW Group
            - Implementation spans CORES and HW TGs; also need to consider where it sits in Verification
            - Debug unit and the core (CV32E40P, CVA6, etc.) need to be verified in conjunction; every time we create a new CV core, we also need to verify that the debug unit and core are compatible
        - In the short term, we require some RTL changes that need to be solved before we get to final silicon for core-v-mcu
            - Florian can do this for the tape-out; Jeremy will provide reproducible snapshots/traces
- CORE-V-MCU Update
    - Greg presented slides (will post)
    - How to manage PR against dev branch; Greg is in process of becoming a committer and will be able to merge his own PRs to keep dev branch up to date; will leave to Florian, Davide, Mike, to merge dev into master
    - Something happened in the last few commits to the master branch to fix the number of harts issue
    - Should CLI test be associated with core-v-mcu repo?
        - There is already some SW within the core-v-mcu repo
        - SW that is needed for the HW should build with the HW
            - Current bootrom directory is a remnant of the PULP platform; replace current bootrom with the Greg’s new bootrom
            - Verilator model uses the old bootrom somehow
            - Greg will add his bootrom to the repo
    - There was a question on how to generate header files without rebuilding the HW
        - ‘make software’ will do this
    - Issue with makefile failing CI for building documentation, requires pandoc; option to remove or install pandoc on the CI machine; Florian will install pandoc
    - Completion of QuickLogic/CMC/Synopsys licensing is imminent; synthesis and hand-off to back-end design will begin soon; deadline for Fall tapeout is end of October
- CORE-V-MCU committer discussion
    - Duncan identified 5 things to do from perspective of managing the program
        - 1) documenting the branch strategy; dev and master branch in core-v-mcu repo
        - 2) committer training, roles in Eclipse project
        - 3) committer elections; Greg and Tim are both committers
        - 4) bring project under Eclipse umbrella and CORE-V-CORES umbrella
        - 5) plan approved gate; review checklist, documentation; project freeze checklist
    - Agreed to meet August 25 at 1pm EDT to discuss; Hugh will send Teams meeting invite
