# HW TG Meeting: April 21, 2021

## Attendees:
- Hugh Pollitt-Smith
- Duncan Bees
- Arjan Bink
- Davide Schiavone
- Jeremy Bennett
- Olive Zhao
- Rick O’Connor
- Tim Saxe
- Vincent Cui
- Yunhai Shang

## Agenda:
- Alibaba CSI HAL
- CORE-V-MCU Project


 ##Discussion notes:

### Alibaba CSI HAL:
  *  Vincent and Yunhai presented Alibaba’s THEAD CSI interface
    * CSI is based on CMSIS, but further developed by Alibaba to fit their own requirements
    * It appears the environment is big, complex—how well will this work on small chips like cv32e40p/x/s, or OSs like FreeRTOS; for CORE-V-MCU, we’re looking for abstraction of the lowest level of the hardware layer
      * Current system supports Alibaba RTOS
      * This should support multiple operating systems, including FreeRTOS, Zephyr; also other OSes, devices for CORE-V; we don’t want to lock developers into a particular RTOS; FreeRTOS is a current need for CORE-V-MCU
    * Tim is interested to look at further, if there is a repo someone can point him to
    * User Guide is currently in Mandarin only; Yunhai will share with Olive and Tim
       * Olive can assess the level of effort to port CSI to the current CORE-V-MCU FPGA emulation
    * Quicklogic have done their own HAL for CORE-V-MCU, but will switch to whatever SW TG comes up with
      * Open question whether to push out emulation with current HAL or wait; don’t want to send people down the wrong path at the beginning
    * There will not likely be a single HAL; CMSIS—lots of adoption already, but unlikely to be architecture agnostic; NMSIS — a few vendors getting together to advance it as an option; Alibaba with CSI
      * For OpenHW, we should base decisions on community adoption, volume of support around different initiatives, consider what will help with adoption of the HW; is it for OpenHW Group to lead, follow, or wait for dust to settle and then implement? 
      * Adopt a direction that is well-supported, driven by existence of adoption and volume; count architectures that have used the various implementations; put a matrix table together of options, position in industry, pros/cons for support by OpenHW
           * Adoption is important, but also willingness to move to CORE-V; someone will need to pony up effort to move to CORE-V and provide support
           * We want to follow the direction of RISC-V International
    * Yunhai will lead this effort through the SW TG; first step will be a survey of available options (May); build consensus and way forward, leading to format proposal (June)



### CORE-V-MCU SOC/FPGA project update:

  * Duncan showed the current Project Plan spreadsheet; task breakdown is complete, but needs more details (start/complete dates) to get into shape for Monday’s TWG; Duncan, Tim, Hugh will meet to fill out checklist before Monday

