**November 9th, 2023**

## Participants

* Jonathan Balkind
* CÃ©sar Fuguet
* Duncan Bees
* Flo Wohlrab
* Mike Thompson

## Notes

* Duncan presented slides with a list of projects that could be into the Interconnect TG
* Duncan proposed to ask project leaders to send a status in a monthly basis.
* Discussion about the POLARA project: should it be in Cores TG or Interconnect TG ?
* Markdown template for [monthly progress report](https://github.com/openhwgroup/programs/blob/master/process/Project-Monthly-Report-Template.md)
* Create a folder in the Process Git to push reports every month
* Jonathan Balkind and Cesar Fuguet can be nominated as committers on OpenHW repositories
  * This will be set for voting
